Step 1: Connecting to the Dataset
1.Open Tableau Public:
1.Launch the Tableau Public application.
2.Connect to the Data File:
1.On the left-hand side of the Tableau start screen, click Microsoft Excel.
2.Navigate to the location of the Sample - Superstore.xlsx file and select it.
3.Tableau will load the file and show the sheets within the workbook (e.g., Orders, People, Returns).
3 .Drag a Table to the Workspace:
1.Drag the Orders sheet to the workspace area to load the data.
2.Tableau will display a preview of the data, including columns like Order Date, Region, Sales, Profit, etc.

4. Go to the Worksheet:
1.Click on Sheet 1 at the bottom to start creating visualizations.


Step 2: Perform Calculations
Example 1: Calculate Profit Ratio
We will create a new field that calculates the ratio of profit to sales.
1.In the Data Pane (left side), click the dropdown arrow and select Create Calculated Field.
2.Name the field Profit Ratio.
3.Enter the formula:
[Profit] / [Sales]
4. Click OK to save.

5.  Use this field in your visualization:
Drag Profit Ratio to the Columns shelf.
Drag Region to the Rows shelf to see the profit ratio for each region.

Example 2: Categorize Sales Performance
We’ll categorize sales based on thresholds.
1.Create another calculated field and name it Sales Performance.
2.Enter the formula:
IF [Sales] > 5000 THEN 'High'
ELSEIF [Sales] > 2000 THEN 'Medium'
ELSE 'Low'
END

3. Click OK.
4.  Drag Sales Performance to the Color section of the Marks Card to visualize sales categories.


Step 3: Create Parameters
Example 1: Set a Sales Threshold
We’ll create a parameter to filter data dynamically based on a user-defined sales threshold.
1.Create a Parameter:
1.In the Data Pane, click the dropdown arrow and select Create Parameter.
2.Name the parameter Sales Threshold.
3.Set the Data Type to Float.
4.Under Allowable Values, choose Range and set:
1.Minimum: 0
2.Maximum: 10,000
3.Step Size: 500
                          
2.Show the Parameter Control:
1.Right-click on the parameter and select Show Parameter Control.
2.A slider will appear in your worksheet for the threshold.

3.Use the Parameter in a Calculation:
1.Create a new calculated field called Above Threshold with this formula:
IF [Sales] > [Sales Threshold] THEN 'Above Threshold'
ELSE 'Below Threshold'
END
·  Drag Above Threshold to the Color section of the Marks Card.
·  Adjust the slider to see how the visualization changes based on the threshold.



Example 2: Dynamic Region Selection
Allow users to filter data based on a specific region.
1.Create a Parameter:
1.Name it Select Region.
2.Set the Data Type to String.
3.Under Allowable Values, select List and add the regions (e.g., "East", "West", "South", "Central").
                 
2.Show the Parameter Control:
1.Right-click on the parameter and select Show Parameter Control.
2.A dropdown will appear in your worksheet.
3.Use the Parameter in a Filter:
1.Create a calculated field called Region Filter:
[Region] = [Select Region]
2.Drag Region Filter to the Filters shelf and set it to True.
                   

4.Select a region from the dropdown to filter the data.
